Add mesh tutorials to the main tutorials branch (#1908)
ansys/pydpf-core: doc/source/user_guide/tutorials/animate/animate_time.rst

.. _ref_tutorials_animate_time:

======================
Animate data over time
======================

> .. |Examples| replace:: :mod:`ansys.dpf.core.examples`

Reviewer: Nice! I didn't know this trick. Looks useful!

.. |Workflow| replace:: :class:`Workflow<ansys.dpf.core.workflow.Workflow>`
.. |Elemental| replace:: :class:`elemental<ansys.dpf.core.common.locations>`
.. |ElementalNodal| replace:: :class:`elemental_nodal<ansys.dpf.core.common.locations>`
.. |Nodal| replace:: :class:`nodal<ansys.dpf.core.common.locations>`
.. |Faces| replace:: :class:`faces<ansys.dpf.core.common.locations>`
.. |Overall| replace:: :class:`overall<ansys.dpf.core.common.locations>`
.. |open_movie| replace:: :class:`pyvista.Plotter.open_movie`

This tutorial demonstrates how to create 3D animations of data in time.

:jupyter-download-script:`Download tutorial as Python script<animate_time>`  :jupyter-download-notebook:`Download tutorial as Jupyter notebook<animate_time>`

To animate data across time, you must store the data in a |FieldsContainer| with a ``time`` label.

Get the result files
--------------------

First, import a results file. For this tutorial, you can use the one available in the |Examples| module.
For more information about how to import your own result file in DPF, see
the :ref:`ref_tutorials_import_data` tutorial section.

> .. jupyter-execute::
> 
>     # Import the ``ansys.dpf.core`` module
>     from ansys.dpf import core as dpf
>     # Import the examples module
>     from ansys.dpf.core import examples
>     # Import the operators module
>     from ansys.dpf.core import operators as ops
>     
>     # Define the result file path
>     result_file_path = examples.find_msup_transient()
>     # Create the model
>     model = dpf.Model(data_sources=result_file_path)

Reviewer: I would avoid combining comments and imports. Instead, I feel it is more appropriate to have paragraphs and small code cells:

  ```suggestion
  
  Start by importing the `dpf`, `examples`, and `operators` modules:
  
  
.. jupyter-execute::

    from ansys.dpf import core as dpf
    from ansys.dpf.core import examples
    from ansys.dpf.core import operators as ops
    
Next, define the path to the result file and create the model:

.. jupyter-execute::
    
    result_file_path = examples.find_msup_transient()
    model = dpf.Model(data_sources=result_file_path)
```

Define a time scoping
---------------------

To animate across time, you must define the time steps you are interested in.
This tutorial retrieves all the time steps available in |TimeFreqSupport|, but you can also filter them.
For more information on how to define a scoping, see the ``Narrow down data`` tutorial in the
:ref:`ref_tutorials_import_data` tutorials section.

.. jupyter-execute::

    # Get a scoping of all time steps available
    time_steps = model.metadata.time_freq_support.time_frequencies

Extract the results
-------------------

Extract the results to animate. In this tutorial, you extract the displacement and stress results.

.. note::

    Only the |Elemental|, |Nodal|, or |Faces| locations are supported for animations.

>     |Overall| and |ElementalNodal| locations are not currently supported.

Reviewer: This replacement is very convenient. I really like it.

You can animate any result on a deformed geometry by providing displacement results in the `deform_by` parameter.

The geometry can be deformed by a |Result| object, an |Operator| (It must evaluate to a |FieldsContainer|
of same length as the one being animated), or a |FieldsContainer| (also of same length as the one being animated).

.. note::

    The behavior of the |animate| method is defined by a |Workflow| it creates and feeds to an |Animator|.
    This |Workflow| loops over a |Field| of frame indices and for each frame generates a field of norm contours
    to render, as well as a displacement field to deform the mesh if `deform_by` is provided.
    For more information on plots on deformed meshes see: :ref:`ref_plotting_data_on_deformed_mesh`.

Animate the displacement results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use |animate| with the displacement results.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Deformed mesh

        .. jupyter-execute::
           :hide-output:

           # Animate the displacement results in a deformed geometry
           disp_fc.animate()

        .. jupyter-execute::
           :hide-code:
           :hide-output:

>            disp_fc.animate(off_screen=True,save_as="source/user_guide/tutorials/animate/animate_disp_1.gif")

Reviewer: Not a big fan of storing output. It forces to manually regenerate it in the future and it is prone to get outdated quickly.

In the future, it would be great to migrate this to Jupytext. I bet that using MyST can provide us with the same tab-features we are using.
